--- Page 83 ---
83 Synopsys, Inc. 2.4 MAC Transaction Layer
The MAC Transaction Layer (MTL) prov ides the FIFO memory Interface to  buffer and regulate the packets
between the application system memory and the MAC. It also enables the data to be transferred between the
application clock and MAC clock doma ins. The MTL layer has two data paths: Transmit path and Receive
Path. The data path for both directions can be 32-bit, 64-bit, or 128-bit wide.
The MTL communicates with the application through Appl ication Transmit Interface (ATI) on the Transmit
path and Application Receiv e Interface (ARI) on the Receive path. The MTL also provides the MAC Control
Interface (MCI) as a control path. The default and optional I/O signals for the ATI, ARI, and MCI interfaces are described in “ Signal Descriptions”  on page 471.
2.4.1 Transmit Path
In EQOS-MTL configurations, the application module dr ives all transactions rela ted to the Transmit path
through ATI. In EQOS-AHB, EQOS-AXI, and EQOS-DMA  configurations, the internal DMA handles all
transactions for the Transmit path through ATI.
The application or internal DMA push es the Ethernet packets read from the application or system memory
into the corresponding queue. The packet is then popped out and tran sferred to the MAC when the queue
threshold is reached (threshold mode) or complete pa cket is in the queue (sto re-and-forward mode). When
EOP is transferred, the status of the transmission is taken from the MAC and transferred back to the
application or internal DMA.
The Tx queue has a default size of 2K bytes. The fill level of the queue is indica ted to the application or
internal DMA (using PBL and watermark) so that it ca n initiate a data fetch in required bursts from the
application or system memory. The application or internal DMA indicates the SOP and EOP as packet
delimiters through ATI interface. In  configurations with multiple queu es, the application or internal DMA
should also indicate the qu eue number for which the tran saction is be ing addressed.
2.4.1.1 Transmit Control Word
The following control information related to packet tran smission is provided as a part of the Control Word
through ATI interface:
■Packet Length (if DCB is enable d with WFQ scheduling algorithm)
■CRC Pad Control
■Source Address Insertion Control (if Enable SA and VLAN Insertion on Tx  option is selected)
■VLAN Insertion and Replacement Control and VLAN  Tag for Outer and Inner VLAN Tags (if only
Enable SA and VLAN Insertion on Tx  option is enabled. Inner VL AN Tag is supported if both Enable
SA and VLAN Insertion on Tx  and Enable Double VLAN Processing  options are enabled)
■TCP/IP Checksum Insertion Control (if Enable Transmit TCP/IP Checksum Offload  option is
selected)
■One-step Timestamping Control Correction (if Enable One-Step Timestamp Feature  option is
selected)
■Transmit Timestamp Enable (if Enable IEEE 1588 Timestamp Support  option is selected)

--- Page 84 ---
84Synopsys, Inc. 2.4.1.1.1 Transmit Control Word Format
The control word format for 32-bit datawidth configuration is shown in Figure 2-31. Control Word 0 is
always present, when per packet control is needed. Control Words 1, 2, and 3 (in 32-bit configuration) are
present based on the packet control field of Control Word 0.
Control Word 1 is present in the following configurations:
■When only Enable SA and VLAN Insertion on Tx option is selected and VTV bit is set.
■When both Enable SA and VLAN Insertion on Tx and Enable Double VLAN Processing options are
enabled and VTV or IVTV bits are set
■When Enable One-Step Timestamp Feature is selected, and OSTC bit is set
■When Enable One-Step Timestamp for PTP over UD P/IP Feature is selected, and both OSTC and
OST_AVAIL bits are set
Table 2-3  lists and describes the contents of Control Word 1 based on different configurations and register
bit settings.
Table 2-3 Content of Control Word 1 Depending on Configuration and Register Bit Settings
Control Word 2 is present only when Enable One-Step Timestamp Feature is  selected and OSTC bit is set or
when Enable One-Step Timestamp for PTP over UDP/IP Feature is selected and both OSTC and
OST_AVAIL bits are set.Contents of
Control Word 1Enable SA
and VLAN Insertion
on TXEnable
Double VLAN
ProcessingEnable
One-Step Timestamp
Feature
VTV IVTVOSTC and OST_AVAIL
VLAN Tags are
presentYe s N o D on t c ar e Ye s N o D on t car e
Inner VLANTag Y es Y es Dont care No Y es Dont care
Outer VLANTag Yes Yes Dont care Yes No Dont careInner and Outer
VLANTags are presentY es Y es Dont care Y es Y es Dont care
Timestamp Low
(lower 32-bit
value)Ye s Ye s Ye s N o N o Ye s
Timestamp High
(higher32-bit value)No Not
configurableYe s N ot
configurableNot
configurableYe s

--- Page 85 ---
85 Synopsys, Inc. Table 2-4  lists and describes the contents of Control Word 2 depending on the configuration and register bit
settings.
Table 2-4 Content of Control Word 2 Depending on Configuration and Register Bit Settings
If Enable SA and VLAN Insertion on Tx  is not selected, it contains the higher 32-bit value. If Enable SA and
VLAN Insertion on Tx is selected and VTV bit is set, it contains the lower 32-bit value.
Control Word 3 is present only when Enable SA and VLAN Insertion on Tx, Enable Double VLAN
Processing, and Enable One-Step Timestamp Feature is selected and OSTC, (Enable One-Step Timestamp
for PTP over UDP/IP Feature is selected and both OS TC and OST_AVAIL bits are set), VTV, and IVTV bits
are set. Its value is Timestam p High (higher 32-bit value).
Control Word 1 is present when bits VTV (when Enable  SA and VLAN Insertion on  Tx option is selected)
and/or IVTV (when both Enable SA and VLAN Inse rtion on Tx and Enable Double VLAN Processing
options are enabled) is/are set, and contains the Inner and/or Outer VLAN Tags, based on the VTV/SVTV
bits respectively.
Control Word 1 is also present when OSTC (when Enable One-Step Timestamp Feature is selected) bit is set
and both VTV and SVTV bits are not set. In this case, Control Word 1 contains the lower 32-bit value and
Control Word 2 contains the higher 32-bit value of the 64 -bit timestamp. When both OSTC and VTV and/or
SVTV bits are set, Control Word 1 contains the Inne r and/or Outer VLAN Tags, Control Word 2 contains
the lower 32-bit value, and Control Word 3 contains th e higher 32-bit value of the 64 bit timestamp. The
Control Word number is indicated through the ati_ctrl_type_i signal of the ATI interface.
Figure 2-32 Tx Control Word Structure for 32-Bit Datawidth Configurations
The control word format for 64-bit datawidth configuration is shown in Figure 2-33 . Control Word 1 is
present only when the Enable One-St ep Timestamp Feature option is selected in your configuration. The
Control Word number is indicated through the ati_ctrl_type_i signal of the ATI interface.Contents of Control
Word 2Enable
One-Step
Timestamp FeatureEnable SA
and VLAN
Insertion on TXOSTC
OST_AVAIL
VTV ITV
Timestamp Low
(lower 32-bit value)Ye s Ye s Ye s Ye s Ye s
Timestamp High
(higher 32-bit value)Y es No Y es No No
Tx Control Word 0
Tx Control Word 1
Tx Control Word 2Tx Control Word 3Packet Control Packet Length
Outer VLAN Tag
Timestamp HighTimestamp LowInner VLAN Tag

--- Page 86 ---
86Synopsys, Inc. Figure 2-33 Tx Control Word Structure for 64-Bit Datawidth Configurations
The control word format for 128-bit datawidth configuration is shown in Figure 2-34 .
Figure 2-34 Tx Control Word Structure for 128-Bit Datawidth Configuration
Table 2-5  describes the Packet Length  and Packet Control Fields.
Table 2-5 Packet Length and Control Fields
Field Field Name Description
31 RSVD Reserved30 IVTV Inner VLAN Tag Valid:
When set, this bit indicates that the VLAN Tag to be inserted or replaced is available in TX Control Word 1 [31:16]. This bit is valid only when both Enable SA and VLAN Insertion on Tx and Enable Double VLAN Processing options are selected.
29 VTV VLAN Tag Valid
When set, this bit indicates that the VLAN Tag1 to be inserted or replaced is available in the TX Control Word1[15:0] or VLT1[15:0] field of TX control word1. This bit is valid only when Enable SA and VLAN Insertion on Tx option is selected.
28:27 VTIR VLAN Tag Insert or Replace
When set, these bits request the MAC to perform VLAN tagging or untagging before transmitting the packets. The application must set the appropriate CRC Pad Control value when this field is enabled.The following lis t describes the values of these bits:
■2'b00: Do not add a VLAN tag.
■2'b01: Remove the VLAN tag from the packets before transmission. This option should
be used only with the VLAN packets.
■2'b10: Insert a VLAN tag.
■2'b11: Replace the VLAN tag. This opti on must be used only with VLAN packets.
The tag value for insertion or replacement can be taken from the Outer VLAN field of the
Control Word or VLT field of MAC_VLAN_Incl register, based on the VLTI bit in that register.
These bits are valid when the Enable SA and VLAN Insertion on Tx option is selected.
This field is valid only for the first descriptor.Tx Control Word 0
Tx Control Word 1VLAN Tag 2 VLAN Tag 1
Timestamp LowPacket Control Packet Length
Timestamp High
Tx Control Word 0Timestamp
HighTimestamp
LowVLAN Tag 2 VLAN Tag 1Packet
ControlPacket Length

--- Page 87 ---
87 Synopsys, Inc. 26:24 SAIC SA Insertion Control
These bits request the MAC to insert or replace the Source Address field in the Ethernet packet with the value given in the MAC Address 0 register. If the Source Address field is modified in a packet, the MAC automatically recalculates and replaces the CRC bytes.
Bit 26 specifies the MAC Address Register (1 or 0) value that is used for Source Address insertion or replacement. The following list describes the values of Bits[25:24]
■2'b00: Do not include the source address
■2'b01: Include or insert the source address. For reliable transmission, the application
must provide frames without source addresses.
■2'b10: Replace the source address. For reliable transmission, the application must provide frames with source addresses.
■2'b11: Reserved
SA Insertion Control can also be controlled by programming the SARC bits of
MAC_Configuration register. SARC bits determine whether the SA insertion control is through the control word or register. These bits are valid when the Enable SA and VLAN Insertion on Tx option is selected.
23:22 IVTIR Inner VLAN Tag Insert or Replace
These bits control the inner VLAN tagging or untagging before transmitting the packets.
The outer VLAN tag must be present for this operation. The application must set appropriate CRC Pad Control value when this  control is enabled. The following list
describes the values of these bits.
■2'b00: Do not add inner VLAN tag.
■2'b01: Remove the inner VLAN tag from the packets before transmission. This option
should be used only with the stacked VLAN packet
■2'b01: Remove the inner VLAN tag from the packets before transmission. This option should be used only with the stacked VLAN packets
■2'b10: Insert inner VLAN tag with the tag value programmed in MAC Register 25 (MAC_Inner_VLAN_Incl register).
■2'b11: Replace the inner VLAN tag in packets with the Tag value programmed in MAC Register 25 (MAC_Inner_VLAN_Incl register). This option must be used only with
stacked VLAN packets.
The tag value for insertion or replacement can be taken from the Inner VLAN field of the
Control Word or VLT field of MAC_Inner_VLAN_Incl register, based on the VLTI bit in that register.
These bits are valid when the Double VLAN and SA-VLAN Insertion options are selected during core configuration.
21:20 CIC Checksum Insertion Control.
These bits control the checksum calculation and insertion. The following list describes the bit encoding:
■2'b00: Checksum Insertion Disabled.
■2'b01: Only IP header checksum calculation and insertion are enabled
■2'b10: IP header checksum and payload checksum calcul ation and in sertion are
enabled but pseudo-header checksum is not calculated in hardware
■2'b11: IP Header checksum and payload checksum calculation and insertion are
enabled and pseudo-header checksum is calculated in hardware.
This field is valid when the Enable Transmit TCP/IP Checksum Offload option is selected.Field Field Name Description

--- Page 88 ---
88Synopsys, Inc. 19 OSTC One-Step Timestamp Correction
When this bit is set, the MAC performs the one-step timestamp correction with reference to the timestamp values provided in Tx Contro l Word 1/2 and Tx Control Word 2/3.This bit
is valid when the Enable One-Step Timestamp Feature option is selected.
18 TTSE Transmit Timestamp Enable
When set, this bit enables the IEEE1588 hardware time stamping for this Transmit frame.This bit is valid when the Enable IEEE 1588 Timestamp Support option is selected.
17:16 CPC CRC Pad Control
This field controls the CRC and Pad insertio n for Tx frame.The following list describes the
bit encoding:
■2'b00: CRC and Pad Insertion
The MAC appends the cyclic redundancy check (CRC) at the end of the transmitted packet of length greater than or equal to 60 bytes. The MAC automatically appends
padding and CRC to a packet with length less than 60 bytes.
■2'b01: CRC Insertion ( Disable Pad Insertion)
The MAC appends the CRC at the end of the transmitted packet but it does not append
padding. The application should ensure that the padding bytes are present in the packet being transferred from the Transmit Buffer, that is, the packet being transferred
from the Transmit Buffer is of length greater than or equal to 60 bytes.
■2'b10: Disable CRC Insertion
The MAC does not append the CRC at the end of the transmitted packet. The applica-
tion should ensure that the padding and CRC bytes are present in the packet being transferred from the Transmit Buffer.
■2'b11: CRC Replacement
The MAC replaces the last four bytes of the transmitted packet with recalculated CRC
bytes. The application should ensure that the padding and CRC bytes are present in
the packet being transferred from the Transmit Buffer.
When checksum insertion (CIC), SA-VLAN insertion (SAIC), or one-step timestamp
(OSTC) features are enabled, the application must provide appropriate CRC Pad Control.
15 OST_AVAIL One-step Timestamp Available
When OSTC bit and this bit are set, it indicates that the reference Timestamp is available
in the TTSH and TTSL fields of TX control word.The Tx control word corresponding to TTSH and TTSL fields must not be provided if this bit is reset.This bit is valid when the
Enable One-Step Timestamp for PTP over UDP/IP Feature option is selected.
14:0 PL Transmit Packet Length
This field is equal to the length of the packet to be transmitted in bytes. This field is
needed only when DCB is enabled in your configuration and WFQ scheduling algorithm is selected.
Note:  If CRC and padding is done by the MAC, the application must provide the
appropriate length, which is (approximately) equal to the length of the transmitted packet by the MAC.
This information is used by the Transmit scheduler.Field Field Name Description