--- Page 167 ---
167 Synopsys, Inc. 5
Using PHY Interfaces
This chapter describes the Station Management modu le and different PHY interfaces. It contains the
following sections:
■“Station Management Agent”  on page 168
■“Physical Coding Sub-Layer (PCS)”  on page 173
■“Reduced Gigabit Media Independent Interface”  on page 177
■“Reduced Media Inde pendent Interface”  on page 183
■“Serial Media Independent Interface”  on page 187
■“Reverse Media Independent Interface”  on page 192
■“Serial Gigabit Media Independent Interface”  on page 204
■“Reduced Ten-Bit Interface”  on page 209
■“Multiple PHY Interfaces”  on page 211

--- Page 168 ---
168Synopsys, Inc. 5.1 Station Management Agent
5.1.1 Introduction to Stat ion Management Agent
The application can access the PHY registers through the Station Management Agent (SMA) module. SMA
is a two-wire Station Management interface (MIM).
5.1.2 Functional Description of  Station Management Agent
For MIM accesses, the maximum operating frequency of the MDC (gmii_mdc_o) is 2. 5 MHz, as specified in
the IEEE 802.3. In the DWC_ether_qo s core, the gmii_mdc_o clock is deri ved from the application clock or
clk_csr_i, using a divider-counter. The divide factor depends on the cl ock range setting (CR field) in the
MAC_MDIO_Address register
Select the clock divide factor as mentioned in the description of CR field of MAC_MDIO_Address register,
to meet IEEE specifications. However, if your system supports higher clock frequencies on the MIM
interface, there is a provision to select a different divider.
The MDIO frame struct ure is as follows:
Table 5-1 MDIO Clause 45 Frame Structure
Field Description
IDLE The mdio line is in tri-state; there is no clock on gmii_mdc_o signal.PREAMBLE 32 continuous bits of value 1START Start of packet is 2’b00OPCODE
■2’b00
■2’b01
■2’b10
■2’b11
PHY ADDR 5-bit address select for one of 32 PHYs
DEV ADDR 5-bit address select for one of 32 devices
TA Turnaround
■2’bZ0: Read and post-read increment address
■2’b10: Write and address MDIO accesses
Where Z is the tri-state level
DATA/ADDRESS 16-bit value: For an address cycle (OPCOD E = 2'b00), this frame contains the address of the
register to be accessed on the next cycle. For the data cycle of a write frame, this field contains the data to be written to the register. For read or post-read increment address frames, this field contains the contents of the register read from the PHY .
■In address and data write cycles, the DWC_ether_qos drives the MDIO line during the transfer
of these 16 bits.
■In read and post-read increment address cycles, the PHY drives the MDIO line during the transfer of these 16 bits.

--- Page 169 ---
169 Synopsys, Inc. The frame structure for Clause 22  frames is also supported. The C45E bit in the MAC_MDIO_Address
register can be programmed to enable Clause 22 or Clause 45 mode of operation. Table 5-2  shows the Clause
22 frame format.
Table 5-2 MDIO Clause 22 Frame Structure
In addition to normal read and write operations, th e SMA also supports post-rea d increment address while
operating in Clause 45 mode.
5.1.2.1 GMII/MII Management Write Operation
After the Station Management Agent receives the PHY address and the write data from the MAC CSR
module, the SMA starts a Write operation to the PHY registers.
Figure 5-1  illustrates the flow for a write operation from the SMA module to the PHY registers.Field Description
IDLE The mdio line is in tri-state;  there is no clock on gmii_mdc_o.
PREAMBLE 32 continuous bits of value 1START Start of packet is 2’b01OPCODE
■2’b01 for Write
■2’b10 for Read
PHY ADDR 5-bit address select for one of 32 PHYsDEV ADDR 5-bit address to select the register within each MMDTA Tur naround
■2’bZ0: Read and post-read increment address
■2’b10: Write and address MDIO accesses
Where Z is the tri-state level
DATA/ADDRESS Any 16-bit value:
■In a write operation, the DWC_ether_qos drives MDIO.
■In read operation, the PHY drives MDIO.

--- Page 170 ---
170Synopsys, Inc. Figure 5-1 SMA Write Operation Flow
When you set Bit[3:2] to 2’b01 and Bit 0 in th e MAC_MDIO_Address register, the MAC CSR module
transfers the PHY address, the regist er address in PHY, and the write data (MAC_MDIO_Data register) to
the SMA to initiate a Write operation into the PHY regi sters. At this point, the SMA module starts a Write
operation on the GMII Management Interface using the Mana gement Packet Format specified in the GMII
specifications (as per IEEE 80 2.3-2002, Section 22.2.4.5).
When the SMA module starts a Write operation, the write data packet is  transmitted on the MDIO line. The
MAC drives the MDIO line for comple te duration of the packet. The Busy  bit is set high until the write
operation is complete. The CSR ignores the Writ e operations performed to the MAC_MDIO_Address
register or the MAC_MDIO_Data register during this  period (the Busy bit is  high). When the Write
operation is complete, the SMA module indicates th is to the CSR, and the CSR resets the Busy bit.
The packet format for the Write operat ion is shown in the following table:
IDLE PREAMBLE START OPCODE PHY ADDR REG ADDR TA DATA IDLE
Z 1111...11 01 01 AAAAA RRRRR 10 DDD....DDD Z

--- Page 171 ---
171 Synopsys, Inc. Figure 5-2  is a reference for the Write operation.
Figure 5-2 Management Write Operation
5.1.2.2 GMII/MII Management Read Operation
After the Station Management Agent receives the PHY a ddress and the register addr ess in the PHY from the
MAC CSR module, the SMA initiates a Re ad operation to the PHY registers.
The flow of a Management read operation is as follows:
1. Set Bit[3:2] to 2’b11 and Bit 0 in the MAC_MDIO_Address register
2. The MAC CSR module transfers the PHY address and th e register address in PHY to the SMA to initiate
a Read operation in the PHY registers
3. The SMA module starts a Read operation on the GMII Management Interface using the Management
Packet Format specified in the GMII specifications (as per IEEE 802.3-2002, Section 22.2.4.5).
4. When the SMA module starts a Read operation on the MDIO, the CSR ignores the Write operations to
the MAC_MDIO_Address or MAC_MDIO_Data register du ring this period (the Busy bit is high) and
the transaction is completed withou t any error on the MCI interface.
5. When the Read operation is complete , the SMA indicates this to the CSR.
6. The CSR resets the Busy bit and updates the MAC_MDIO_Data register with the data read from the
PHY.
For more information about the communication from the application to the PHYs, see the Reconciliation
Sublayer and Media Independent Inte rface Specifications sections of the IEEE 802.3z, 1000BASE Ethernet.
The packet format for the Read operation is as follows:
IDLE PREAMBLE START OPCODE PHY ADDR REG ADDR TA DATA IDLE
Z 1111...11 01 10 AAAAA RRRRR Z0 DDD....DDD Z
The MAC drives the MDO on negedge of MDC so that it can be sampled on posedge with sufficient
setup or hold time (half cycle of MDC). Similarly, the PHY can drive MDI on negedge so that the MAC samples it on posedge, thus prov iding half cycle setup or hold time.
Note

--- Page 172 ---
172Synopsys, Inc. Figure 5-3  is a reference for the read operation.
Figure 5-3 Management Read Operation
5.1.2.3 Preamble Suppression
The IEEE standard specifies 32-bit preamble (all-on es) for the MDIO frames. The DWC_ether_qos provides
controls to support preamble suppr ession, it will transmit MDIO frames  with only 1 preamble bit. The
preamble suppression can be enabled by se tting PSE bit of MAC_MDIO_Address register.
5.1.2.4 Trailing Clocks and Back to Back transactions
The DWC_ether_qos drives MDC clock on the gmii_mdc_o port for duration of the MDIO frame. There is
no clock driven during the idle period. The trailing clocks feature can be used  if the PHY needs the MDC
clock to be active for some cycles after the MDIO  frame. The NTC field in MAC_MDIO_Address register
allows programming of trai ling clocks from 0 to 7.
The DWC_ether_qos supports Back to Back transactions which allows start of next MDIO frame even before
the trailing clocks are completed for previous MDIO fram e. This feature can be enabled by setting BTB bit in
MAC_MDIO_Address register wh en trailing clocks feature is also enab led. When Back to Back transactions
is enabled, the GMII Busy will be cleared immediatel y after MDIO frame completion allowing SW to issue
next command, which will be executed by DWC_ether_ qos while trailing clocks are still on for previous
MDIO frame. When Back to Back transactions is not enabled, the GMII Busy will be cleared after the trailing
clocks are completed for MDIO frame.
5.1.3 Interrupt for MD IO Transaction Completion
This enhancement is to generate an interrupt on comple tion of MDIO read or writ e transactions. As a result
of this enhancement, the application need not poll the GMII Busy bit of MAC_ MDIO_Address register to
know the completion  of MDIO commands.
5.1.4 Enabling Station Management Agent
To enable this feature while configuring the controller in the coreConsultant GUI:
1. Select the Enable Station Management (MDIO Interface)  option under the PHY Interface section
during the Specify Configuration activity in coreConsultant.
For details about this option, se e PHY Interface Parameters in “ Parameter Descriptions”  on page 419.
See the “Enabled” field of the parameter descriptions to understand the dependencies.
Note