--- Page 111 ---
111 Synopsys, Inc. 2.4.2.7.5 Receive Queue Read Interface
The queue read timing diagrams for the synchronous two-port RAM along with the timing relationship
with signals on the ARI is shown in this section.
The MTL Rx Queue Read Controller pre-fetches the data (rrc_rd_* signals) from th e Rx queue when it finds
that the Rx queue is not empty and th e application is ready to service th e Queue (in case of multiple Queue
configuration). The pre-fetching corresponds to ma ximum of three locations for three locations for
synchronous RAM interface. This pre-fetching is done to sustain the burst data transfers without any delay
on the ARI interface. The (pre-)fetche d data is registered and given out on the ARI with respective ari_*
signals. When the application acknowledges the data with ari_ack_i, further data is read from the queue. Figure 2-51  shows the Queue read interface timing for sync hronous SRAM. The timing  relationship of the
rrc_rd_* signals is similar to that of trc_rd_* signals.
Figure 2-51 Receive FIFO Read Interface Timing
2.4.2.7.6 Receive Packet Flush
When the application decides to drop the packet (at the top of the Rx Queue) during the start, middle, or
end of a packet transfer (ari_val_o, ari_rxstatus_val_o, or ari_timstamp_val_o is asserted), it can assert
ari_packetflush_i for one clock on the corresponding Rx queue. The MTL response is shown in Figure 2-52
The MTL de-asserts ari_val_o, ari_rxstatus_val_o, ar i_timestamp_val_o, and ari_rxwatermark_o when it
finds an active pulse on ari_pack etflush_i[] for the currently active queue number ari_qnum_o[]. It
continues the Read transfer from the Rx queue but does not transfer it to  ARI. It flushes the entire packet,
including the status. The MTL is now ready to transfer the next packet.
If the ari_packetflush_i[] is asserted for currently inactive queue (there is no activity on the ARI interface for
the queue to which ari_pack etflush_i[] is issued), the MTL interna lly flushes the topmost packet in that
queue.

--- Page 112 ---
112Synopsys, Inc. Figure 2-52 Receive Packet Flush Timing
2.4.3 Interfacing With External Two-Port RAMs
The DWC_ether_qos provides a generi c memory interface for easy interc onnection to any vendor-specific,
two-port RAM for implementing the Tx queue an d Rx queue. This section describes how the
DWC_ether_qos can be interconnected with different types of two-port RAMs.
The two memory interfaces provided in DWC_ether_ qos for connectivity with Transmit and Receive
two-port RAMs are identical. Therefore, the conn ections with the Tx queu e and Rx queue RAMs are
illustrated in the following sections in a single diagram for each type of RAM. The “x” variable in the signal
names can be replaced with a “t” for the Tx queue interface and an “r” for the Rx queue interface.
2.4.3.1 Low-Power, Synchronous Two-Port SRAM Connection
The synchronous, two-port SRAM shown in Figure 2-53  consists of two ports: Port A and Port B. These
ports can be used for both read and write operat ions. The DWC_ether_qos (configured for synchronous
RAM interface) uses this SRAM as an asynchronous FI FO for transferring data from one clock domain to
another clock domain. Therefore, a port  (Port A, for example) is used to write the packet data and the other
port is used to read the packet data, with the writes and reads happening in different clock domains.
(Consequently, the Read data (DOUT_ A) from Port A and write data (DIN _B) to Port B are left unconnected
in Figure 2-53 )
Figure 2-53 Low-Power, Synchronous Two-Port SRAM Connection

--- Page 113 ---
113 Synopsys, Inc. The SRAM chip enable (CEN) and wr ite enable (WEN) are connected to chip select (*_csn_o) and write
enable (*_wr_en_o) signals from the MAC. Based on the active states of CEN and WEN, the DWC_ether_qos
memory interface signals are directly connected or have inverted polarity. Connecting the chip select signal
ensures that the SRAM I/O drivers are turned off wh en read or write operation is not scheduled and
thereby reduces power consumption.
If the memory module (such as Xilinx FPGA Block Sele ct RAM) has a single enable for the read port (No
Output Enable), xrc_rd_csn_o must be connected to the enable, with polarity taken into consideration.
2.4.3.2 High-Speed, Synchronous Two-Port SRAM Connection
For applications where power consumption is not a factor  and memory access times are too critical, the chip
enable and read enable signals can always be tied to active high inputs. In such applications, the generic
memory interface signals can be connected to synchronous SRAM as shown in Figure 2-54 . The unused
outputs of the generic memory interfac e are also shown as floating outputs.
Figure 2-54 High-Speed, Synchronous Two-Port SRAM Connection
2.4.4 SPRAM Interface
The MAC supports Single Port RAM (SPRAM) option to implement the MT L FIFO buffers. In this configu-
ration, each transmit and Receive FIFO memory is split into two SPRAM blocks.
Figure 2-55  shows the high level architectural approach for supporting single port RAM interface. It
describes the data flow, clock doma ins and memory interfaces in EQOS-MTL configuration with GMII/MII
PHY interface.
As compared to a single DPRAM instance (with application clock on 1 port and GMII/MII clock on the
other port), each Transmit and Receive FIFO memory is split into two SPRAM blocks (Odd and Even) and
operates with the application clock. Each SPRAM bl ock will have the same widt h as earlier (DPRAM) but
will have half the depth of the total FIFO memory se lected in the configuratio n. Thus the total memory
space will be retained as configured.

--- Page 114 ---
114Synopsys, Inc. Figure 2-55 SPRAM Architecture Block Diagram
2.4.4.1 Data Flow
In Transmit direction, the data is  read from the SPRAM memory and then transferred from application
clock domain to GMII TX clock domain using a small asynchronous register FI FO at the MTI interface
between the MTL module and MAC blocks. Similarly,  the data received from the MAC Receiver in
GMII/MII RX clock domain is transferred to applicat ion clock domain using a re gister FIFO at the MRI
interface.
In configurations with multiple TX Queues, there is  a scheduler on the Read-s ide of the TXFIFO which
selects the TxQueue from which the next packet is to  be transmitted. This scheduler logic continues to
operate in GMII/MII clock domain so that the AVB related CBS algorithm is not affected by this
change.However, there can be an im pact on the minimum IPG (Inter-Packet Gap) that can be supported
with SPRAM configuration due to the presence of ASYNC FIFO in TX path, scheduler in TX GMII/MII
clock domain while the packet data is read from SPRAM in application clock domain. Additional CDC

--- Page 115 ---
115 Synopsys, Inc. synchronizers will get added as compared to the DPRA M architecture which adds  latency delays between
packet transmissions.
The area increase with the SPRAM configuration option is mainly due to this as ynchronous register FIFOs.
The data to the FIFO are stored alternatively in the Odd and Even SPRAM blocks based on the odd and
even addresses of the FIFO pointer respectively. As the memory is used as a FIFO structure, data is
normally written and read in a sequ ential manner (incrementing address). Hence with this organization,
writes and reads will alternate between the two Odd and Even SPRAMs. This architecture enables
simultaneous reads and writes to the FI FO (in 1 clock cycle) so that the da ta transfer throughput as achieved
by a DPRAM memory architecture is ma intained. This also allows continuo us burst transfers to the host bus
like AHB, AXI in configurations with DMA an d thus utilize the bus bandwidth effectively.
However, as the read and write operations are triggere d by independent engines, there can be a contention
between them for accessing a SPRAM block in the same clock. There is  an arbiter block between the Read
and Write Engines that handles the contention as given as follows:
For TX FIFO, write operation is give n priority over the read operation.
The read operation is delayed by a clock in such case s assuming that the write operation switches to the
other memory in the next clock (due to sequential write).
The MAC transmitter do not need continuous data (For example, in 32-bit config urations and operating in
1Gbps mode, the MAC transmitter needs 32-bit word  every 4 Tx clock cycles ). The depth of small
asynchronous FIFO towards the MAC is selected to avoid under run, by pre-fetching  data whenever there is
opportunity to read from the memory.
For RX FIFO, read operation is given priority over write operation.The write operation is delayed by a clock in such case s assuming that the read operation switches to the
other memory in the next clock (due to sequential reads).
The MAC receiver does not provide cont inuous data (For example, in 32-b it configurations and operating in
100Mbps mode, the MAC receiver provid es 32-bit word every 8 Rx clock cy cles) except at the beginning and
towards end of the Rx packet. The depth of small asyn chronous FIFO towards the MTL is selected to avoid
the overrun.
2.4.4.2 Application Clock Frequency Requirements for Memory Transfers
Due to the requirement of simultaneo us read and write transfers from the FIFO memories, the application
clock frequency should be such that the data transfer bandwidth of memory must be at least twice the
bandwidth as that of the line.
In addition to the previous requirem ent, additional bandwidth is required  to allow delays due to contention
between read and writes to a single memory block (O dd or Even). The probability  of contention increases
with multiple Queues (in Tx Side ) especially in EQOS-AXI and E QOS-MTL configurations. These are
mainly due to
■Possibility of receiving and writing interleaved data of different queu es, all of which are to the same
(odd or even) memory clocks in consecutive clock cycles.
■Non-sequential reads & writes of control word s for each packet by scheduler in TX side
■Non-sequential writes of status wo rds for each packet in RX side.
Considering the above, the minimum applicatio n clock frequency esti mate in the various
modes/speeds/configurations to avoid underflow in  the "Async FIFO" in TX path is given in Table 2-12 .

--- Page 116 ---
116Synopsys, Inc. Table 2-12 Application Clock Frequency Estimate in Various Modes/Speeds
When the speed is 100Mbps (MII mode), the minimum a pplication clock frequency is  reduced by factor of
In the RX side, contention can happen if the slave me mory does not accept data  continuously and in the
worst case there can be a contention for every memory access if the slave memory introduces one busy cycle
after every transfer. However, status word writes steal cycles during the IPG (Inter-packet Gap) of received
packets. The number of status word s to be written depends on the co nfiguration (for example, IEEE 1588
requires 64-bit timestamps, VLAN st ripping requires 32-bit VLAN tags , etc). The depth (or area) of the
register Asynchronous FIFO has to  be larger to avoid overflows.
However, the minimum application clock frequency will be  the same in all configurations in 1 Gbps speed
as shown in Table 2-13 .
Table 2-13 Minimum Application Clock Frequency in Various Configurations
For 100Mbps operating mode, the a pplication clock frequency can be  reduced by a factor of 10.ConfigurationNo of Tx
Queues DW = 32 DW = 64 DW = 128
EQOS-AXI,
EQOS-MTL2 or less 75 MHz 38 MHz 19 MHz
4 or less 125 MHz 62.5 MHz 31.25 MHz6 or less 200 MHz 100 MHz 50 MHz8 or less 250 MHz 125 MHz 62.5 MHz
EQOS-AHB,
EQOS-DMAAny 62.5 MHz 31.25 MHz 16 MHz
ConfigurationNo of Rx
Queues DW = 32 DW = 64 DW = 128
Any Any 69 MHz 36 MHz 21 MHz
■The previous tables are pessimistic and estimate d with a worst case scenario assumptions. These
will be validated in simu lation and updated later.
■To handle valid frames of size < 64 bytes received in the line, increase the application clock
frequency further, as the overhead due to status is considerably large on Rx side.
■The previous computation assumes 12 bytes of IPG and 8 bytes of preamble+SFD. To handle
reduced IPG and preamble, increase the application clock frequency further, to transfer the status
in the available gaps between packets on the application interface (MRI)
Note

--- Page 117 ---
117 Synopsys, Inc. 2.4.4.3 SPRAM Timing
Timing of the SPRAM memory is same as the TSO memory, as shown in Figure 2-56 .
Figure 2-56 SPRAM Interface Timing Diagram

--- Page 118 ---
118Synopsys, Inc. 2.5 MAC
The MAC supports many interfaces towards the PHY chip. The PHY interf ace can be selected only once
after reset. The MAC communicates with the application side with the MAC Transmit Interface (MTI), MAC
Receive Interface (MRI), and MAC Control Interface (MCI).
2.5.1 MAC Transmission
The MAC supports many interfaces to wards the PHY chip. The PHY interface can be selected only once after
reset. The MAC communicates with the application si de with the MAC Transmit  Interface (MTI), MAC
Receive Interface (MRI), and MAC Control Interface (MCI).
The MAC transmission process is as follows:
1. Transmission is initiated when th e MTL application pushes in data with the SOP (mti_sop_i) signal
asserted.
2. When the SOP signal is detected, the MAC accepts th e data and begins transmi tting to the GMII or MII.
The time required to transmit the packet data to th e GMII or MII after the application initiates the trans-
mission depends on delay factors such as IPG delay, time to transmit preamble or SFD, and any back-off
delays for half-duplex mode. While the packets data is being transmi tted, the MAC can stop accepting
the data received from the MTL by de-asserting the mti_rdy_o signal.
3. After the EOP (mti_eop_i) is transferred to  the MAC, the MAC does one of the following:
■The MAC completes the normal transmission an d gives the transmission status to the MTL.
■If a normal collision (in half-duplex mode) occurs  during transmission, the MAC gives the Transmit
Status with retry bit set to the MT L. The MAC gives the Re try request till one of the following is true:
Packet is successfully transmittedMaximum retry requests expire
When maximum retry requests expire, the MAC ab orts the packet transmission with Excessive
Collision Transmit Status. The MAC accepts and dr ops all further data until the next SOP is
received. The MTL block should retransmit the same packet from SOP on observing a Retry
request (in the Status) from the MAC.
■If any one of the following happens, the MAC aborts the packet transmission:
No carrier (half-duplex mode)
Loss of carrier (half-duplex mode)
Excessive deferral (half-duplex mode)Late collisions (half-duplex mode)
Jabber
The MAC accepts and drops all further data until the next SOP is received.
4. The MAC issues an underflow status if the MTL is no t able to provide the data continuously during the
transmission. The MAC accepts and drops all further data until the next SOP is received.
5. During the normal transfer of a packet from MTL,  if the MAC receives a SOP without getting an EOP
for the previous packet, it ignores the SOP and consid ers the new packet as continuation of the previous
packet.

--- Page 119 ---
119 Synopsys, Inc. Figure 2-57  illustrates the MAC transmission process flow.
Figure 2-57 Overview of MAC Transmission Process Flow

--- Page 120 ---
120Synopsys, Inc. The following six modules constitute th e transmission func tion of the MAC:
■“Transmit Bus Interface Module”  on page 120
■“Transmit Packet Controller Module”  on page 120
■“Transmit Protocol Engine Module”  on page 121
■“Transmit Module”  on page 122
■“Transmit CRC Generator Module”  on page 123
■“MAC Transmit Flow Control Module”  on page 123
2.5.1.1 Transmit Bus Interface Module
The MAC Transmit Bus Interface (TBU) accepts data in 32 , 64, or 128-bit wide bus and runs on the clk_tx_i
clock of GMII interface.
The Transmit Bus Interface (TBU) modu le connects the Transmit path of the MAC with an external packet
through a FIFO interface.
The TBU accepts data in 32, 64, or 128-bit wide bus and runs on the clk_tx_i clock of GMII interface. The
TBU module performs the following functions:
■Outputs the (32-bit) Transmit status  to the application at the end of  normal transmi ssion or collision
■Outputs the Transmit snapshot register value to the mti_timestamp_o signal and asserts the mti_sta-
tus_valid signal
■Performs the Endian conversion of data bus by swapping the byte lanes and corresponding byte
enables
■Converts the input data into an 8-bit bus towards the Transmit Packet Controller
2.5.1.2 Transmit Packet Controller Module
The Transmit Packet Controlle r (TPC) module consists of eight registers to hold the data and the last data
control received from the TBU.
The register provides a buffer between the application and the Transmit Protocol Engine (TPE) to regulate
data flow.
When the number of bytes received from the applic ation are less than 60 (DA+SA+LT+DATA), the state
machine that interfaces with TBU automatically appends zeros to the packet being transmitted. This is done
to make the data length exactly 46 bytes (provided mt i_crc_pad_ctrl_i is 2’b00) to meet the minimum data
field requirement of IEEE 802.3. To program the MAC to not append any padding, you can use the
mti_crc_pad_ctrl_i sideband signal from the MTI.
The cyclic redundancy check (CRC) for the Frame Ch eck Sequence (FCS) field is calculated before
transmission to the TPE module. This value is comput ed by the CTX module. The TPC module receives the
computed CRC and appends it to the data being transmitted to the TPE mo dule. When the MAC is
programmed (through mti_crc_ pad_ctrl_i sideband signal  from the application inte rface) to not append the
CRC value to the end of Ethernet packets, the TPC module ignores th e computed CRC and transmits only
the data received from the TBU module  to the TPE module. An exception to this rule is that when the MAC
is programmed to append pads for packets (DA+SA+LT+DATA) less than 60 bytes sent by the TBU
module, the TPC module appends the CRC at the end of  padded packet irrespective of the value on the
mti_crc_pad_ctrl_i signal.