--- Page 38 ---
38Synopsys, Inc. ■TCP Segmentation and UDP Fragmentation Offload
■ARP Offload support
■IEEE 1588 Ethernet frame timestamp support
■AV, TSN, and DCB traffic qu euing and forwarding support
■Endianness for all applic ation-side data paths
■Station Management Agent (SMA) – MDIO module
■Choice of APB, APB3, APB4, AHB, AXI3, AXI4 -Lite or native MCI interface for slave port
■Separate application clocks option for slave port
■SA and VLAN insertion or replacement
■Configurable number of general purpos e inputs and output s (up to 16 each)
■Packet transmission and reception through Sl ave interface instead of Master interface

--- Page 39 ---
39 Synopsys, Inc. 1.4 DWC_ether_qos Deliverables
The deliverables included in  the DWC_ether_qos software package help in the integration of the controller
with RTL, verification testbenches, IP-XACT component, and so on.
The DWC_ether_qos is packaged as a dw_iip_DWC_ether_qos_5.10a.run file. The DWC_ether_qos requires
the Synopsys coreConsultant tool to install, unpack , and configure the DWC_ether_qos. The license file
required to install, unpack, and configure DWC_ether_qos is delivered separately.
The DWC_ether_qos image includes the following:
■Verilog RTL source code
■Synthesis script generation for Synops ys Design Compiler and Synplify Pro.
■Verification testbenches and test configurations derived from your parameter choices
❑Verilog-based testbench environment for EQOS -AHB and EQOS-AXI configuration using DW
AMBA VIP. You can use this testbench, along with the provided test cases, as a reference to build a verification environment for an SoC in whic h EQOS-AHB or EQOS-AXI integration can be
tested.
For more information about the VTB used to te st the EQOS-AHB/EQOS-AXI configurations using
AMBA Verification IP (VIP), see Design Ware Cores Ethernet Quality-of-Service, User Guide .
❑Verilog-based testbench environment and test cases for EQOS-DMA, EQOS-MTL, and
EQOS-CORE configurations.
❑Support for creating gate-level Device Unde r Test (DUT) models using a GTECH library.
❑Verification scripts for running with three simu lators: Synopsys VCS, ModelSim, and NC-Verilog
simulators.
■IP-XACT component representation of the IP (XML format). The coreConsultant supports the gener-
ation of configured core integration files that m eet the IP-XACT specifications. The coreConsultant
also supports the file generation for IP-XACT-compliant software viewing of the configured core.
The memory map is generated for all registers that are directly accessed by the host and are listed in
Register Descriptions. However, the RevMII Registers are accessed indirectly through the MDIO interface. Therefore, these registers are not present in the Memory Map generated in the IP-XACT view.
Contact Synopsys Support Center for software driver
Note
Note

--- Page 40 ---
40Synopsys, Inc. 1.5 Related Synopsys Products
Synopsys offers demo drivers, demo boards, and PHYs that can be used with the DWC_ether_qos controller.
The following products are available for the DWC_ethe r_qos controller through se parate part numbers and
written agreements.
■Demo drivers
■Demo boards
■PHYs